vm-setup/roles/add_iac/README.md, before:

## Role Name

The `add_iac` role is responsible for setting up Infrastructure as Code (IaC)
tools on the target system. Currently, it focuses on adding the HashiCorp
repository and installing HashiCorp products such as Terraform and Packer.

## Requirements

No specific requirements.

## Role Variables

The role uses the following variables which are set in the `defaults/main.yml`
of the `add_repo` role:

`repo_list`: A list of repositories to add. By default, it includes the
HashiCorp repository.

## Dependencies

This role depends on the `add_repo` role to add the necessary APT repositories
for HashiCorp products.

## Example Playbook

Including an example of how to use your role (for instance, with variables
passed in as parameters) is always nice for users too:

```yaml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
     - { role: add_iac }
```

## License

DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, December 2004

Copyright (C) 2023 Alan Young

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim or modified
copies of this license document, and changing it is allowed as long
as the name is changed.

DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. You just DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO.

## Author Information

This role was created in 2023 by Alan Young

Commit message:

aider: Updated README to clarify `add_iac` role does not have modifiable variables.
# Aider chat conversation:

USER: A role variable is something the caller can modify correct?

ASSISTANT: Yes, in Ansible, a role variable is a parameter that can be set by the caller (e.g., a playbook) to customize the behavior of the role. These variables can be defined in various places within an Ansible project, such as `defaults/main.yml` for default values, or they can be overridden at the playbook level when the role is invoked. This allows for flexibility and reusability of roles across different playbooks and environments.

USER: In the case of add_iac there are no modifiable role variables.

ASSISTANT: Understood. To address the issue with the `add_iac` role not having modifiable role variables, we should update the `README.md` to reflect that the role does not use any user-modifiable variables. Here is the diff to make that change:

```diff
--- vm-setup/roles/add_iac/README.md
+++ vm-setup/roles/add_iac/README.md
@@ -9,11 +9,7 @@
 No specific requirements.

 ## Role Variables
-
-The role uses the following variables which are set in the `defaults/main.yml`
-of the `add_repo` role:
-
-`repo_list`: A list of repositories to add. By default, it includes the
-HashiCorp repository.
+This role does not have any user-modifiable variables.

 ## Dependencies

```

This diff removes the section that incorrectly states that the `add_iac` role uses variables set in the `defaults/main.yml` of the `add_repo` role and replaces it with a statement that the role does not have any user-modifiable variables.

vm-setup/roles/add_iac/README.md, after:

## Role Name

The `add_iac` role is responsible for setting up Infrastructure as Code (IaC)
tools on the target system. Currently, it focuses on adding the HashiCorp
repository and installing HashiCorp products such as Terraform and Packer.

## Requirements

No specific requirements.

## Role Variables
This role does not have any user-modifiable variables.

## Dependencies

This role depends on the `add_repo` role to add the necessary APT repositories
for HashiCorp products.

## Example Playbook

Including an example of how to use your role (for instance, with variables
passed in as parameters) is always nice for users too:

```yaml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
     - { role: add_iac }
```

## License

DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, December 2004

Copyright (C) 2023 Alan Young

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim or modified
copies of this license document, and changing it is allowed as long
as the name is changed.

DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. You just DO WHAT THE FUCK YOU WANT TO.

## Author Information

This role was created in 2023 by Alan Young
