work/jq.md, before:

# jq Tutorial: JSON Processing Made Easy

## What is jq and Why Use It?

`jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. Think of it as
"sed for JSON data" - it lets you slice, filter, map, and transform structured
data with the same ease that sed, awk, and grep let you play with text.

### Common Use Cases:

- **API Response Processing**: Extract specific fields from REST API responses
- **Configuration Management**: Parse and modify JSON configuration files
- **Data Analysis**: Filter and transform JSON datasets
- **DevOps Automation**: Process JSON outputs from cloud services (AWS, Azure, GCP)
- **Debugging**: Pretty-print JSON for better readability

### Example:

```bash
# Pretty-print JSON
curl "https://api.example.com/data" | jq '.'

# Extract specific fields
curl "https://api.example.com/users" | jq '.users[] | {name: .name, email: .email}'
```

## jq Basics: Understanding the Paradigm

jq operates on a few key principles that make it powerful yet approachable:

### Data-Centric

jq is designed specifically for JSON data structures. It understands:

- Objects (key-value pairs)
- Arrays (ordered collections)
- Basic values (strings, numbers, booleans, null)

### Functional

jq follows functional programming concepts:

- **Filters as Functions**: Every jq expression is a "filter" that takes an input and produces an output
- **Composition**: Filters can be chained together with the pipe operator (`|`)
- **Immutability**: Input data is never modified; transformations create new data

### Declarative

With jq, you describe what you want, not how to get it:

- Focus on the data transformation, not the implementation details
- Concise syntax for common operations
- Built-in functions for sorting, grouping, and mathematical operations

### Basic Syntax Examples:

```bash
# Select a field from an object
echo '{"name": "John", "age": 30}' | jq '.name'
# Output: "John"

# Select elements from an array
echo '[1, 2, 3, 4]' | jq '.[]'
# Output (each on a new line):
# 1
# 2
# 3
# 4

# Combine operations
echo '{"users": [{"name": "Alice", "role": "admin"}, {"name": "Bob", "role": "user"}]}' | jq '.users[] | select(.role == "admin") | .name'
# Output: "Alice"
```

## Everything is a Filter: The jq Philosophy

In jq, everything you write is a filter that transforms JSON data. This concept is fundamental to mastering jq.

### Types of Filters:

#### 1. Extraction Filters

These filters pull out specific pieces of data:

```bash
# Identity filter (.) - passes input unchanged
echo '{"a": 1}' | jq '.'
# Output: {"a": 1}

# Object Identifier (.field)
echo '{"name": "John", "age": 30}' | jq '.age'
# Output: 30

# Array Index
echo '[10, 20, 30]' | jq '.[1]'
# Output: 20

# Array/Object Value Iterator (.[] or .[])
echo '{"a": 1, "b": 2}' | jq '.[]'
# Output (each on a new line): 1 2
```

#### 2. Construction Filters

These filters create new JSON structures:

```bash
# Create an object
echo '{"first": "John", "last": "Doe"}' | jq '{name: .first + " " + .last}'
# Output: {"name": "John Doe"}

# Create an array
echo '{"a": 1, "b": 2}' | jq '[.a, .b, .a + .b]'
# Output: [1, 2, 3]
```

#### 3. Iteration Filters

These filters process collections of data:

```bash
# map - Apply a filter to each element
echo '[1, 2, 3]' | jq 'map(. * 2)'
# Output: [2, 4, 6]

# select - Keep elements that match a condition
echo '[1, 2, 3, 4]' | jq 'map(select(. % 2 == 0))'
# Output: [2, 4]
```

### Combining Filters

The real power of jq comes from combining filters with the pipe operator (`|`):

```bash
# Complex transformation
echo '{"orders": [
  {"id": 1, "items": [{"product": "A", "price": 10}, {"product": "B", "price": 20}]},
  {"id": 2, "items": [{"product": "C", "price": 30}]}
]}' | jq '.orders[] | {order_id: .id, total: (.items | map(.price) | add)}'

# Output:
# {"order_id": 1, "total": 30}
# {"order_id": 2, "total": 30}
```

### Advanced Filter Techniques

- **Alternative operator (`//`)**: Provide a default value
  ```bash
  echo '{"a": 1}' | jq '.b // "Not found"'
  # Output: "Not found"
  ```

- **Pipe operator (`|`)**: Chain filters together
  ```bash
  echo '{"a": {"b": [1, 2, 3]}}' | jq '.a | .b | .[0]'
  # Output: 1
  ```

- **Comma operator (`,`)**: Run multiple filters on the same input
  ```bash
  echo '{"a": 1, "b": 2}' | jq '.a, .b'
  # Output (each on a new line): 1 2
  ```

Remember that jq's filter-based approach makes complex JSON transformations both readable and maintainable, which is especially valuable in automation scripts and data processing pipelines.

Commit message:

docs: Enhance jq "Combining Filters" section with detailed step-by-step explanation

work/jq.md, after:

# jq Tutorial: JSON Processing Made Easy

## What is jq and Why Use It?

`jq` is a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. Think of it as
"sed for JSON data" - it lets you slice, filter, map, and transform structured
data with the same ease that sed, awk, and grep let you play with text.

### Common Use Cases:

- **API Response Processing**: Extract specific fields from REST API responses
- **Configuration Management**: Parse and modify JSON configuration files
- **Data Analysis**: Filter and transform JSON datasets
- **DevOps Automation**: Process JSON outputs from cloud services (AWS, Azure, GCP)
- **Debugging**: Pretty-print JSON for better readability

### Example:

```bash
# Pretty-print JSON
curl "https://api.example.com/data" | jq '.'

# Extract specific fields
curl "https://api.example.com/users" | jq '.users[] | {name: .name, email: .email}'
```

## jq Basics: Understanding the Paradigm

jq operates on a few key principles that make it powerful yet approachable:

### Data-Centric

jq is designed specifically for JSON data structures. It understands:

- Objects (key-value pairs)
- Arrays (ordered collections)
- Basic values (strings, numbers, booleans, null)

### Functional

jq follows functional programming concepts:

- **Filters as Functions**: Every jq expression is a "filter" that takes an input and produces an output
- **Composition**: Filters can be chained together with the pipe operator (`|`)
- **Immutability**: Input data is never modified; transformations create new data

### Declarative

With jq, you describe what you want, not how to get it:

- Focus on the data transformation, not the implementation details
- Concise syntax for common operations
- Built-in functions for sorting, grouping, and mathematical operations

### Basic Syntax Examples:

```bash
# Select a field from an object
echo '{"name": "John", "age": 30}' | jq '.name'
# Output: "John"

# Select elements from an array
echo '[1, 2, 3, 4]' | jq '.[]'
# Output (each on a new line):
# 1
# 2
# 3
# 4

# Combine operations
echo '{"users": [{"name": "Alice", "role": "admin"}, {"name": "Bob", "role": "user"}]}' | jq '.users[] | select(.role == "admin") | .name'
# Output: "Alice"
```

## Everything is a Filter: The jq Philosophy

In jq, everything you write is a filter that transforms JSON data. This concept is fundamental to mastering jq.

### Types of Filters:

#### 1. Extraction Filters

These filters pull out specific pieces of data:

```bash
# Identity filter (.) - passes input unchanged
echo '{"a": 1}' | jq '.'
# Output: {"a": 1}

# Object Identifier (.field)
echo '{"name": "John", "age": 30}' | jq '.age'
# Output: 30

# Array Index
echo '[10, 20, 30]' | jq '.[1]'
# Output: 20

# Array/Object Value Iterator (.[] or .[])
echo '{"a": 1, "b": 2}' | jq '.[]'
# Output (each on a new line): 1 2
```

#### 2. Construction Filters

These filters create new JSON structures:

```bash
# Create an object
echo '{"first": "John", "last": "Doe"}' | jq '{name: .first + " " + .last}'
# Output: {"name": "John Doe"}

# Create an array
echo '{"a": 1, "b": 2}' | jq '[.a, .b, .a + .b]'
# Output: [1, 2, 3]
```

#### 3. Iteration Filters

These filters process collections of data:

```bash
# map - Apply a filter to each element
echo '[1, 2, 3]' | jq 'map(. * 2)'
# Output: [2, 4, 6]

# select - Keep elements that match a condition
echo '[1, 2, 3, 4]' | jq 'map(select(. % 2 == 0))'
# Output: [2, 4]
```

### Combining Filters

The real power of jq comes from combining filters with the pipe operator (`|`). Let's break down a complex example to see how data flows through each step:

```bash
# Complex transformation
echo '{"orders": [
  {"id": 1, "items": [{"product": "A", "price": 10}, {"product": "B", "price": 20}]},
  {"id": 2, "items": [{"product": "C", "price": 30}]}
]}' | jq '.orders[] | {order_id: .id, total: (.items | map(.price) | add)}'

# Output:
# {"order_id": 1, "total": 30}
# {"order_id": 2, "total": 30}
```

Let's analyze how this filter works step by step:

1. `.orders[]` 
   - Takes the input JSON and selects the "orders" array
   - The `[]` iterates through each element in the array
   - Outputs each order object individually to the next filter

2. `{order_id: .id, total: (...)}` 
   - For each order object, constructs a new object with two fields:
     - "order_id": copied from the input object's "id" field
     - "total": calculated by the sub-expression in parentheses

3. Inside the parentheses: `.items | map(.price) | add`
   - `.items`: Selects the "items" array from the current order
   - `map(.price)`: Transforms the array of item objects into an array of just prices
   - `add`: Sums all values in the resulting array

The data transformation at each step:
- Input → `{"orders": [{"id": 1, ...}, {"id": 2, ...}]}`
- After `.orders[]` → `{"id": 1, ...}` then `{"id": 2, ...}` (processed separately)
- After the full filter → `{"order_id": 1, "total": 30}` then `{"order_id": 2, "total": 30}`

This pipeline approach allows you to build complex transformations by combining simple, focused filters.

### Advanced Filter Techniques

- **Alternative operator (`//`)**: Provide a default value
  ```bash
  echo '{"a": 1}' | jq '.b // "Not found"'
  # Output: "Not found"
  ```

- **Pipe operator (`|`)**: Chain filters together
  ```bash
  echo '{"a": {"b": [1, 2, 3]}}' | jq '.a | .b | .[0]'
  # Output: 1
  ```

- **Comma operator (`,`)**: Run multiple filters on the same input
  ```bash
  echo '{"a": 1, "b": 2}' | jq '.a, .b'
  # Output (each on a new line): 1 2
  ```

Remember that jq's filter-based approach makes complex JSON transformations both readable and maintainable, which is especially valuable in automation scripts and data processing pipelines.
